docs/docs/quickstart.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Quickstart Guide

## Prerequisites

Before getting started with Eliza, ensure you have:
- [Node.js 23+](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm)
- [pnpm 9+](https://pnpm.io/installation)
- Git for version control
- A code editor ([VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [VSCodium](https://vscodium.com) recommended)
- [CUDA Toolkit](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit) (optional, for GPU acceleration)

## Installation

1. **Clone and Install**

   Please be sure to check what the [latest available stable version tag](https://github.com/ai16z/eliza/tags) is.

   Clone the repository

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ai16z/eliza.git
   ```

   Enter directory

   ```bash
   cd eliza
   ```

   Switch to latest tagged release

   ```bash
    # Checkout the latest release
    # This project iterates fast, so we recommend checking out the latest release
    git checkout $(git describe --tags --abbrev=0)
   ```

   Install dependencies

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

   Build the local libraries

   ```bash
   pnpm build
   ```

2. **Configure Environment**

   Copy example environment file

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Edit `.env` and add your values:

   ```bash
   # Suggested quickstart environment variables
   DISCORD_APPLICATION_ID=  # For Discord integration
   DISCORD_API_TOKEN=      # Bot token
   HEURIST_API_KEY=       # Heurist API key for LLM and image generation
   OPENAI_API_KEY=        # OpenAI API key
   GROK_API_KEY=          # Grok API key
   ELEVENLABS_XI_API_KEY= # API key from elevenlabs (for voice)
   ```

## Choose Your Model

Eliza supports multiple AI models:

- **Heurist**: Set `modelProvider: "heurist"` in your character file. Most models are uncensored.
  - LLM: Select available LLMs [here](https://docs.heurist.ai/dev-guide/supported-models#large-language-models-llms) and configure `SMALL_HEURIST_MODEL`,`MEDIUM_HEURIST_MODEL`,`LARGE_HEURIST_MODEL`
  - Image Generation: Select available Stable Diffusion or Flux models [here](https://docs.heurist.ai/dev-guide/supported-models#image-generation-models) and configure `HEURIST_IMAGE_MODEL` (default is FLUX.1-dev)
- **Llama**: Set `XAI_MODEL=meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct-Turbo`
- **Grok**: Set `XAI_MODEL=grok-beta`
- **OpenAI**: Set `XAI_MODEL=gpt-4o-mini` or `gpt-4o`

You set which model to use inside the character JSON file

### Local inference

    #### For llama_local inference:

      1. Set `XAI_MODEL` to your chosen model
      2. Leave `X_SERVER_URL` and `XAI_API_KEY` blank
      3. The system will automatically download the model from Hugging Face
      4. `LOCAL_LLAMA_PROVIDER` can be blank

      Note: llama_local requires a GPU, it currently will not work with CPU inference

    #### For Ollama inference:

      - If `OLLAMA_SERVER_URL` is left blank, it defaults to `localhost:11434`
      - If `OLLAMA_EMBEDDING_MODE` is left blank, it defaults to `mxbai-embed-large`

## Create Your First Agent

1. **Create a Character File**

   Check out `characters/trump.character.json` or `characters/tate.character.json` as a template you can use to copy and customize your agent's personality and behavior.
   Additionally you can read `core/src/core/defaultCharacter.ts` (in 0.0.10 but post-refactor will be in `packages/core/src/defaultCharacter.ts`)

   📝 [Character Documentation](./core/characterfile.md)

2. **Start the Agent**

   Inform it which character you want to run:

   ```bash
   pnpm start --character="characters/trump.character.json"
   ```

   You can also load multiple characters with the characters option with a comma separated list:

   ```bash
   pnpm start --characters="characters/trump.character.json,characters/tate.character.json"
   ```

3. **Interact with the Agent**

   Now you're ready to start a conversation with your agent!
   Open a new terminal window

   ```bash
   pnpm start:client
   ```

   Once the client is running, you'll see a message like this:
```
➜  Local:   http://localhost:5173/
```

   Simply click the link or open your browser to `http://localhost:5173/`. You'll see the chat interface connect to the system, and you can begin interacting with your character.

## Platform Integration

### Discord Bot Setup

1. Create a new application at [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Create a bot and get your token
3. Add bot to your server using OAuth2 URL generator
4. Set `DISCORD_API_TOKEN` and `DISCORD_APPLICATION_ID` in your `.env`

### Twitter Integration

Add to your `.env`:

```bash
TWITTER_USERNAME=  # Account username
TWITTER_PASSWORD=  # Account password
TWITTER_EMAIL=    # Account email
TWITTER_COOKIES=  # Account cookies (auth_token and CT0)
```

Example for TWITTER_COOKIES

The TWITTER_COOKIES variable should be a JSON string containing the necessary cookies. You can find these cookies in your web browser's developer tools. Here is an example format:

```bash
TWITTER_COOKIES='[{"key":"auth_token","value":"your token","domain":".twitter.com"},
  {"key":"ct0","value":"your ct0","domain":".twitter.com"},
  {"key":"guest_id","value":"your guest_id","domain":".twitter.com"}]'
```

### Telegram Bot

1. Create a bot
2. Add your bot token to `.env`:

```bash
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=your_token_here
```

## Optional: GPU Acceleration

If you have an NVIDIA GPU:

```bash
# Install CUDA support
npx --no node-llama-cpp source download --gpu cuda

# Ensure CUDA Toolkit, cuDNN, and cuBLAS are installed
```

## Basic Usage Examples

### Chat with Your Agent

```bash
# Start chat interface
pnpm start
```

### Run Multiple Agents

```bash
pnpm start --characters="characters/trump.character.json,characters/tate.character.json"
```

## Common Issues & Solutions

1. **Node.js Version**

   - Ensure Node.js 23.3.0 is installed
   - Use `node -v` to check version
   - Consider using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to manage Node versions

2. **Sharp Installation**
   If you see Sharp-related errors:

   ```bash
   pnpm install --include=optional sharp
   ```

3. **CUDA Setup**

   - Verify CUDA Toolkit installation
   - Check GPU compatibility with toolkit
   - Ensure proper environment variables are set

4. **Exit Status 1**
   If you see

   ```
   triggerUncaughtException(
   ^
   [Object: null prototype] {
   [Symbol(nodejs.util.inspect.custom)]: [Function: [nodejs.util.inspect.custom]]
   }
   ```

   You can try these steps, which aim to add `@types/node` to various parts of the project

   ```
   # Add dependencies to workspace root
   pnpm add -w -D ts-node typescript @types/node

   # Add dependencies to the agent package specifically
   pnpm add -D ts-node typescript @types/node --filter "@ai16z/agent"

   # Also add to the core package since it's needed there too
   pnpm add -D ts-node typescript @types/node --filter "@ai16z/eliza"

   # First clean everything
   pnpm clean

   # Install all dependencies recursively
   pnpm install -r

   # Build the project
   pnpm build

   # Then try to start
   pnpm start
   ```

5. **Better sqlite3 was compiled against a different Node.js version**
   If you see

   ```
   Error starting agents: Error: The module '.../eliza-agents/dv/eliza/node_modules/better-sqlite3/build/Release/better_sqlite3.node'
   was compiled against a different Node.js version using
   NODE_MODULE_VERSION 131. This version of Node.js requires
   NODE_MODULE_VERSION 127. Please try re-compiling or re-installing
   ```

   You can try this, which will attempt to rebuild better-sqlite3.

   ```bash
   pnpm rebuild better-sqlite3
   ```

   If that doesn't work, try clearing your node_modules in the root folder

   ```bash
   rm -fr node_modules; pnpm store prune
   ```

   Then reinstall the requirements

   ```bash
   pnpm i
   ```

## Next Steps

Once you have your agent running, explore:

1. 🤖 [Understand Agents](./core/agents.md)
2. 📝 [Create Custom Characters](./core/characterfile.md)
3. ⚡ [Add Custom Actions](./core/actions.md)
4. 🔧 [Advanced Configuration](./guides/configuration.md)

For detailed API documentation, troubleshooting, and advanced features, check out our [full documentation](https://ai16z.github.io/eliza/).

Join our [Discord community](https://discord.gg/ai16z) for support and updates!

Commit message:

on default don't update pnpm lockfile

docs/docs/quickstart.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Quickstart Guide

## Prerequisites

Before getting started with Eliza, ensure you have:
- [Node.js 23+](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm)
- [pnpm 9+](https://pnpm.io/installation)
- Git for version control
- A code editor ([VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [VSCodium](https://vscodium.com) recommended)
- [CUDA Toolkit](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit) (optional, for GPU acceleration)

## Installation

1. **Clone and Install**

   Please be sure to check what the [latest available stable version tag](https://github.com/ai16z/eliza/tags) is.

   Clone the repository

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ai16z/eliza.git
   ```

   Enter directory

   ```bash
   cd eliza
   ```

   Switch to latest tagged release

   ```bash
    # Checkout the latest release
    # This project iterates fast, so we recommend checking out the latest release
    git checkout $(git describe --tags --abbrev=0)
   ```

   Install dependencies

   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```

   # Quickstart Guide Update

**Important Note on pnpm Lockfile Management**

By default, the `pnpm` lockfile will not be updated during installations based off of .npmrc frozen-lockfile=true. To update the lockfile, you need to run the command:

```bash
pnpm i --no-frozen-lockfile
```

Please only use this command when you are bumping the version of a package or adding a new package to your package.json. This practice helps maintain consistency in your project's dependencies and prevents unintended changes to the lockfile.

   Build the local libraries

   ```bash
   pnpm build
   ```

2. **Configure Environment**

   Copy example environment file

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Edit `.env` and add your values:

   ```bash
   # Suggested quickstart environment variables
   DISCORD_APPLICATION_ID=  # For Discord integration
   DISCORD_API_TOKEN=      # Bot token
   HEURIST_API_KEY=       # Heurist API key for LLM and image generation
   OPENAI_API_KEY=        # OpenAI API key
   GROK_API_KEY=          # Grok API key
   ELEVENLABS_XI_API_KEY= # API key from elevenlabs (for voice)
   ```

## Choose Your Model

Eliza supports multiple AI models:

- **Heurist**: Set `modelProvider: "heurist"` in your character file. Most models are uncensored.
  - LLM: Select available LLMs [here](https://docs.heurist.ai/dev-guide/supported-models#large-language-models-llms) and configure `SMALL_HEURIST_MODEL`,`MEDIUM_HEURIST_MODEL`,`LARGE_HEURIST_MODEL`
  - Image Generation: Select available Stable Diffusion or Flux models [here](https://docs.heurist.ai/dev-guide/supported-models#image-generation-models) and configure `HEURIST_IMAGE_MODEL` (default is FLUX.1-dev)
- **Llama**: Set `XAI_MODEL=meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct-Turbo`
- **Grok**: Set `XAI_MODEL=grok-beta`
- **OpenAI**: Set `XAI_MODEL=gpt-4o-mini` or `gpt-4o`

You set which model to use inside the character JSON file

### Local inference

    #### For llama_local inference:

      1. Set `XAI_MODEL` to your chosen model
      2. Leave `X_SERVER_URL` and `XAI_API_KEY` blank
      3. The system will automatically download the model from Hugging Face
      4. `LOCAL_LLAMA_PROVIDER` can be blank

      Note: llama_local requires a GPU, it currently will not work with CPU inference

    #### For Ollama inference:

      - If `OLLAMA_SERVER_URL` is left blank, it defaults to `localhost:11434`
      - If `OLLAMA_EMBEDDING_MODE` is left blank, it defaults to `mxbai-embed-large`

## Create Your First Agent

1. **Create a Character File**

   Check out `characters/trump.character.json` or `characters/tate.character.json` as a template you can use to copy and customize your agent's personality and behavior.
   Additionally you can read `core/src/core/defaultCharacter.ts` (in 0.0.10 but post-refactor will be in `packages/core/src/defaultCharacter.ts`)

   📝 [Character Documentation](./core/characterfile.md)

2. **Start the Agent**

   Inform it which character you want to run:

   ```bash
   pnpm start --character="characters/trump.character.json"
   ```

   You can also load multiple characters with the characters option with a comma separated list:

   ```bash
   pnpm start --characters="characters/trump.character.json,characters/tate.character.json"
   ```

3. **Interact with the Agent**

   Now you're ready to start a conversation with your agent!
   Open a new terminal window

   ```bash
   pnpm start:client
   ```

   Once the client is running, you'll see a message like this:
```
➜  Local:   http://localhost:5173/
```

   Simply click the link or open your browser to `http://localhost:5173/`. You'll see the chat interface connect to the system, and you can begin interacting with your character.

## Platform Integration

### Discord Bot Setup

1. Create a new application at [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Create a bot and get your token
3. Add bot to your server using OAuth2 URL generator
4. Set `DISCORD_API_TOKEN` and `DISCORD_APPLICATION_ID` in your `.env`

### Twitter Integration

Add to your `.env`:

```bash
TWITTER_USERNAME=  # Account username
TWITTER_PASSWORD=  # Account password
TWITTER_EMAIL=    # Account email
TWITTER_COOKIES=  # Account cookies (auth_token and CT0)
```

Example for TWITTER_COOKIES

The TWITTER_COOKIES variable should be a JSON string containing the necessary cookies. You can find these cookies in your web browser's developer tools. Here is an example format:

```bash
TWITTER_COOKIES='[{"key":"auth_token","value":"your token","domain":".twitter.com"},
  {"key":"ct0","value":"your ct0","domain":".twitter.com"},
  {"key":"guest_id","value":"your guest_id","domain":".twitter.com"}]'
```

### Telegram Bot

1. Create a bot
2. Add your bot token to `.env`:

```bash
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=your_token_here
```

## Optional: GPU Acceleration

If you have an NVIDIA GPU:

```bash
# Install CUDA support
npx --no node-llama-cpp source download --gpu cuda

# Ensure CUDA Toolkit, cuDNN, and cuBLAS are installed
```

## Basic Usage Examples

### Chat with Your Agent

```bash
# Start chat interface
pnpm start
```

### Run Multiple Agents

```bash
pnpm start --characters="characters/trump.character.json,characters/tate.character.json"
```

## Common Issues & Solutions

1. **Node.js Version**

   - Ensure Node.js 23.3.0 is installed
   - Use `node -v` to check version
   - Consider using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to manage Node versions

2. **Sharp Installation**
   If you see Sharp-related errors:

   ```bash
   pnpm install --include=optional sharp
   ```

3. **CUDA Setup**

   - Verify CUDA Toolkit installation
   - Check GPU compatibility with toolkit
   - Ensure proper environment variables are set

4. **Exit Status 1**
   If you see

   ```
   triggerUncaughtException(
   ^
   [Object: null prototype] {
   [Symbol(nodejs.util.inspect.custom)]: [Function: [nodejs.util.inspect.custom]]
   }
   ```

   You can try these steps, which aim to add `@types/node` to various parts of the project

   ```
   # Add dependencies to workspace root
   pnpm add -w -D ts-node typescript @types/node

   # Add dependencies to the agent package specifically
   pnpm add -D ts-node typescript @types/node --filter "@ai16z/agent"

   # Also add to the core package since it's needed there too
   pnpm add -D ts-node typescript @types/node --filter "@ai16z/eliza"

   # First clean everything
   pnpm clean

   # Install all dependencies recursively
   pnpm install -r

   # Build the project
   pnpm build

   # Then try to start
   pnpm start
   ```

5. **Better sqlite3 was compiled against a different Node.js version**
   If you see

   ```
   Error starting agents: Error: The module '.../eliza-agents/dv/eliza/node_modules/better-sqlite3/build/Release/better_sqlite3.node'
   was compiled against a different Node.js version using
   NODE_MODULE_VERSION 131. This version of Node.js requires
   NODE_MODULE_VERSION 127. Please try re-compiling or re-installing
   ```

   You can try this, which will attempt to rebuild better-sqlite3.

   ```bash
   pnpm rebuild better-sqlite3
   ```

   If that doesn't work, try clearing your node_modules in the root folder

   ```bash
   rm -fr node_modules; pnpm store prune
   ```

   Then reinstall the requirements

   ```bash
   pnpm i
   ```



## Next Steps

Once you have your agent running, explore:

1. 🤖 [Understand Agents](./core/agents.md)
2. 📝 [Create Custom Characters](./core/characterfile.md)
3. ⚡ [Add Custom Actions](./core/actions.md)
4. 🔧 [Advanced Configuration](./guides/configuration.md)

For detailed API documentation, troubleshooting, and advanced features, check out our [full documentation](https://ai16z.github.io/eliza/).

Join our [Discord community](https://discord.gg/ai16z) for support and updates!
